feat: Add release note summary for 0.57 (#305)
vegaprotocol/documentation: docs/releases/overview.md

#### Changing clef address now requires re-importing config
The Nodewallet.ETH section of the config has been removed, and as a consequence some CLI arguments have changed when using clef. Before, when starting a Vega node with a clef wallet, Vega would read whatever clef address was in nodewallet.ETH, whereas after this change, the network only ever uses the value set for the clef address when the key was imported/generated. This work was done under issue [6291 ↗](https://github.com/vegaprotocol/vega/issues/6291)

#### Wallet v2 API `session` renamed
To add more clarity to what the wallet API does, the `session` namespace has been renamed to `client`. This work was done under issue [6314 ↗](https://github.com/vegaprotocol/vega/issues/6314)

#### New features: Core

#### Block explorer APIs
To support the block explorer to list transactions and provide a good user experience, a service and new APIs have been implemented. This work was carried out in [6163 ↗](https://github.com/vegaprotocol/vega/issues/6163)

#### New features: Data node

#### Data node snapshots

> As part of the protocol upgrade process and when new nodes join the network, the nodes need to ensure the data node data is correct. Data node snapshots will be used for these use cases. This is an ongoing in-development feature, this part was implemented in 

Author: ```suggestion
As part of the protocol upgrade process and when new nodes join the network, the nodes need to ensure the data node data is correct. Data node snapshots will be used for these use cases. This is an ongoing in-development feature, this part was implemented in [6239](https://github.com/vegaprotocol/vega/pull/6239)
```

> In order to support the block explorer being able to list transactions and provide a good user experience around searching with transaction ids, a service and new APIs have been implemented. Using the Postgres Tendermint indexer was resulting in datanode stability issues and in some cases affecting core node stability. This new service and APIs will allow good user experiences to be built in front end block explorer applications. This work was carried out in [6163 ↗](https://github.com/vegaprotocol/vega/issues/6163)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To support the block explorer to list transactions and provide a good user experience, a service and new APIs have been implemented. This work was carried out in [6163 ↗](https://github.com/vegaprotocol/vega/issues/6163)
```

Reviewer: I think this feature is also still in development?

> #### Datanode snapshots

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Data node snapshots
```

> #### Update ssset proposal to include the asset ID being updated in GraphQL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Update asset proposal to include the asset ID in GraphQL response
```

In order to ensure GraphQL users understand which asset is being updated the field `assetId` has been added into the `UpdateAsset` proposals response. This work was done under issue [6296 ↗](https://github.com/vegaprotocol/vega/issues/6296)

#### Add rate limiter for GraphQL

> During testing it was identified that GraphQL subscriptions were able to cause overloading on the datanode. To avoid this a rate limiter has been implemented for GraphQL subscriptions. This work was implemented under [6334 ↗](https://github.com/vegaprotocol/vega/pull/6334)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During testing it was identified that GraphQL subscriptions could cause overloading on the data node. A rate limiter has been implemented for GraphQL subscriptions. This work was implemented under [6334 ↗](https://github.com/vegaprotocol/vega/pull/6334)
```

#### New features: Wallet

> #### Add commit hash to verison if is development version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Add commit hash to version if development version
```

> To avoid version confusion by developers and builders due to the wallet not raising compatibility issues between different development versions of the software. The version check has been enhanced to add the commit hash (first 8 characters) behind the +dev build tag. This work was carried out in issue [6283 ↗](https://github.com/vegaprotocol/vega/issues/6283)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid version confusion by developers and builders due to the wallet not raising compatibility issues between different development versions of the software, the version check has been enhanced to add the commit hash (first 8 characters) behind the +dev build tag. This work was carried out in issue [6283 ↗](https://github.com/vegaprotocol/vega/issues/6283)
```

#### Automatic consent for transactions
The permission and connection requests for consent are the last layer of protection when using the Vega Wallet, however, in some cases users may require these requests have automatic consent. The command line flag `--automatic-consent` has been added to wallet API v2 to override the default security, which brings this v1 feature into the new API. This has been implemented in issue [6203 ↗](https://github.com/vegaprotocol/vega/issues/6203)

### Pre-release Version 0.55.0 | 2022-09-20
This version was released to the Vega testnet on 20 September, 2022.

For full details see the vega core [0.55.0 release page ↗](https://github.com/vegaprotocol/vega/releases/tag/v0.55.0).

The primary focus of this release has been to progress work on the data node ensuring there is a scalable data store with historical data, resolve any bugs found and to improve the node operator experience.

:::warning API deprecations

> **Data node**: The v2 APIs ([REST ↗](./../api/rest/overview) and [gRPC ↗](./../grpc/data-node/api/v2/trading_data.proto)) for the data node will be replace v1, which will soon be removed. Therefore anyone building apps on to of Vega should start to use the v2 APIs from this release (0.55) onwards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Data node**: The v2 APIs ([REST](./../api/rest/overview) and [gRPC](./../grpc/data-node/api/v2/trading_data.proto)) for the data node will be replace v1, which will soon be removed. Therefore anyone building apps on to of Vega should start to use the v2 APIs from this release (0.55) onwards.
```

> **Vega Wallet**: For most use cases, the v2 [wallet API ↗](./../api/vega-wallet) will soon be the only one available for interacting with the Vega Wallet. V1 will continue to be used for the testnet-only hosted wallet for testing and incentives, for slightly longer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Vega Wallet**: For most use cases, the v2 [wallet API](./../api/vega-wallet) will soon be the only one available for interacting with the Vega Wallet. V1 will continue to be used for the testnet-only hosted wallet for testing and incentives, for slightly longer.
```
